2025 is going to be here before we know
it I mean heck you might even be
watching this in 2025 so let me share
with you my eight Trend predictions for
Instagram in 2025 I think in 2025 we're
going to see quite a few massive shifts
within the world of content creation and
growing a business or a brand on
Instagram and while there were
definitely new features and changes that
took place on Instagram in 2024 for the
most part I don't think the way that we
use and consume content on Instagram at
the end of 2024 is all that different
than at the end of 202 3 but I think
that's going to be different in 2025 I
think that there are quite a few major
changes that have already been set in
motion and that we've already started to
see changing on Instagram that are going
to drastically alter how we create
content how we consume content how we
grow our businesses and all of that on
Instagram in the coming
year before I get into my 2025
predictions I wanted to quickly recap my
2024 predictions to give myself some
credibility and also just to talk about
some of the changes that have taken
place on Instagram in the last year and
also for those of you who have never met
me before this is the first video you're
ever watching hello my name is Brock
Johnson and this is what I do for a
living I geek out over the Instagram
algorithm and I spend the majority of my
time helping content creators and
business owners grow and make money on
Instagram so let's review my 2024
predictions I had seven of them my first
one was the rise of long form content
and I think to some degree that has
taken place but also I'm going to be
very candid and honest and probably even
maybe a little bit harsh in my own
critique of myself which is to say that
recently within the last few weeks Adam
moseri the CEO of Instagram has said
that they are not a long form platform
and they are not going to lean into
content that is longer than 90 seconds I
did think that reals would be able to be
up to 3 minutes 5 minutes even 10
minutes long like we've seen taking
place on Tik Tok but that just hasn't
been the case on Instagram where I do
think long form content has become more
popular on Instagram is the content
that's between 30 and 90 seconds long so
rather than the 1 second reels or the
super quick b-roll reels that were very
popular at the beginning of 20124 over
the last few months we have seen content
that has more storytelling that feels
more organic that feels more like a best
friend FaceTiming another best friend
that has become more popular so I would
say that's kind of right kind of wrong
in that prediction my second prediction
was an increasing view gap between
what's called Low effort content and
high effort content and I think that's
definitely been the case I think the
talking head reels that are more highly
produced that have better editing that
have better lighting quality all of
those things better storytelling those
reels are doing better on average now
very short reels can definitely still be
successful they can definitely still go
viral but there seems to be an
increasing view gap between just kind of
meh content which used to perform okay
or even good and now it's being treated
like it is it's being treated like man
content and it's getting far below
average views and likes and it's getting
increasingly more more competitive to
stand out and get the views that you
were getting in 2022 and 2023 so I would
say that prediction was correct my third
prediction for 2024 was that less is
more this would be less is more in terms
of followers so people with less
followers would actually be getting more
engagement and that has actually been
proven over the last few months accounts
with below 10,000 below 5,000 and even
below 1,000 followers are on average
getting more views and engagement than
the next tier up so basically less
followers does equal more more views or
engagement I also predicted that less
would be more in terms of posts less
posts equals more engagement that has
been proven to be true and less is more
in terms of stories if you haven't
watched it already I have posted a few
YouTube videos and a few podcasts
recently about my stories strategy that
is proven to increase story views by at
least 3 or 4X if not 10x or 25x what
your normal story views are and
essentially that is a less is more
approach that is one story in a 24-hour
period to maximize your views so I would
say my third prediction was definitely
correct my fourth prediction was more
intentional follows AKA us as users were
going to be more intentional with whom
we follow and I think that's definitely
the case and I would say the biggest
evidence to support that is that the
average amount of followers generated
per profile visit has gone down so
basically if you used to get 30
followers for every 50 people who
visited your profile you're now getting
30 followers from every 100 or 150 or
even more followers who are visiting
your profile on average it seems like
people are being more picky and more
choosy more selective with whom they are
following my fifth prediction was more
private spaces more communities and more
things for close friends and Instagram
has definitely released that they have
released about a dozen new features just
for close friends and just for small
intimate groups in 2024 they're really
trying to lean into uh this small
connection from person to person within
these kind of Niche communities rather
than these big Mega accounts with
millions of followers my sixth
prediction was increased spam protection
and detection and that has been the case
definitely Instagram has beefed up uh
their ability to figure out what post is
spam what comments are spam filter those
things out and remove them even a lot of
people now have a feature on their
Instagram account that automatically can
tell you how many followers you have
that are spam and you can with a click
of one button remove those spam
followers I don't recommend doing that
because it's not perfect yet and there's
some evidence to suggest that when you
remove hundreds if not thousands of
people in one click that it can really
hurt your account in the future so I
don't recommend using it but nonetheless
Instagram has definitely beefed up their
detection and protection against spam
accounts and then finally my seventh
prediction for Instagram in 2024 and
again we're just revisiting really
quickly 2024 before moving on to my 2025
predictions was the youtubi ification of
Instagram and what I meant by this was
yes like we talked about earlier people
would be putting more time time and more
energy and more effort into High
produced videos with great editing and
sound effects and cuts and transitions
but even more so people were really
going to hone in on the ingredients that
make a successful Instagram post in the
way that YouTubers have really honed in
over the last decade on what makes a
successful YouTube video on YouTube it's
the thumbnail it's the title it's the
opening 90 seconds of your YouTube video
and on Instagram people are really
honing in on essentially the hook
because you don't really see the
thumbnail on Instagram it's really just
the hook that matters most people are
understanding that now and they're
paying a lot more attention to the hooks
that they are using so people have
significantly I would say on average
increased their video quality increased
their production quality and most of all
increase their hook quality to keep
people watching I think one thing that I
can point to that shows people's
investment into hooks is number one one
of our best performing freebies in our
business is our 25 viral hook ideas I'll
put that down in the show notes below if
you want to download that that's not the
point of me saying that the point of me
saying that is that we have like I don't
know 20 to 30 different freebies that we
offer in order to collect emails for our
business and by far one of the best
performing if not the very best
performing freebie month after month
after month is our 25 viral hooks guide
so it shows that people are really
starting to care a lot more about their
Hooks and the second thing that I would
say that shows that people are caring a
lot more about their hooks is the rise
of what is called transitional hooks
these are taking viral videos or or
viral hooks I should really say from
viral videos and people are then cutting
them cutting like the first three or 4
seconds of that viral video putting that
as the hook on their own video and then
transitioning into whatever it is that
they want to say all this is essentially
just to say the YouTu ification of
Instagram I believe has taken place all
right so enough about 2024 and all the
changes that have taken place this year
let's talk about what's coming what
changes are going to take place to the
algorithm to the audience to the users
what do I predict is going to happen on
Instagram in 2024 and of course I don't
have a magic eightball so none of this
is guaranteed all of this is my best
hypothesis my best guess as to what's
going to happen and I'm going to try my
best to give you some stats and
basically tell you what I'm seeing that
makes me think this is going to happen
but you are more than welcome to
disagree you're more than welcome to
argue if you think I'm wrong if you
think there's something that I'm just
way off base with or something that you
think is not going to happen or is going
to happen that I don't mention go ahead
and let me know in the comments below
this episode and of course I am open to
any dialogue and feedback that you have
all right so my first big change or
Trend that I think is going to happen on
Instagram in 2025 is the death of
faceless accounts now let me set some
context here for what we're talking
about when I say faceless accounts or
faceless marketing I'm not referring to
what like Pepsi is doing or you know any
other major company and when you look at
their Instagram du lingo any Instagram
account for a brand or company that
doesn't already have a face to the brand
I don't think that's what's going to die
that's not what I'm predicting here what
I'm specifically referring to is this
trend that has emerged in 2024 called
faceless marketing where people are
creating content with short b-roll
videos of someone else in order to grow
their personal brand and sell something
so often times what it looks like is
you'll see like a a supermodel walking
down the street in New York City and
there will be like some super engaging
almost click baity type of hook or title
on the video like here's how I went from
$3 a day to $30,000 a day read the
caption and that's the other key element
is it always just says read the caption
so the video itself is not the person
who's actually creating the video and
oftentimes the video has very little to
do with what the real is going to be
about often times it's just like a woman
walking on the street or someone typing
on a computer it has very little to do
with the actual content that's being
provided and the real is is really just
functioning as a billboard to say read
the caption that's it there's no actual
value or tip or strategy or substenance
in the actual reel it's just a hook and
then it has you know some engaging audio
or video I should say um and then it
says read the caption and then the
caption is usually long and it offers
some tips and then it's oftentimes
trying to sell a course that is teaching
you to do exactly what they're doing it
often times involves Mr which is
something we've talked about um on this
channel a few times but essentially I
think this trend is going to die out and
I think it's going to die out
specifically for people who are trying
to build personal Brands I think there
are plenty of examples of businesses
that don't need a personal brand but can
still be successful online there are so
many different brands and products and
businesses that are going to grow that
are going to make sales and are going to
be successful without ever showing their
face my problem with this trend is that
it's being used to build a personal
brand and it's very tough to build trust
and to be authentic with a person
personal brand if you aren't even
showing your face now I want to say that
I understand all of the reasons for this
taking place I understand people are
doing faceless marketing as a way to
protect their identity maybe they're a
school teacher or maybe they've been in
an abusive relationship and so for
whatever reason they can't put their
face online I understand that's the case
for a lot of people I would just say to
those people don't build a personal
brand build a business brand build a
brand around a product build a brand
around a company rather than feeling
like you have to put your face online
but you can't so now you're going to use
Random clips of other people's faces
it's just confusing and then I believe
that the other category of people who
oft times do this faceless marketing
thing are people who are just
uncomfortable or shy or they're not used
to putting their face online and to
those people I would say you got to get
used to it I know it's not easy but you
got to embrace the suck there was a
point in time when everyone including
myself was uncomfortable with the sound
of their own voice uncomfortable
recording themselves and uncomfortable
putting their face online online but if
you're just doing faceless marketing
it's preventing you from ever learning
that skill it's preventing you from ever
getting comfortable online it's
preventing you from learning and growing
and having the potential to ever move
through that uncomfortability and make
the uncomfortable comfortable it's like
putting a Band-Aid on a broken bone it's
not really going to do anything and
unfortunately what happened at the
beginning of 2024 is that a few people
went viral with this kind of trend with
this style of marketing where again
they're taking a random b-roll video of
someone besides themselves some super
clickbaity title or hook on the screen
and they're telling people to read the
caption and then people are spending a
few seconds or even a few minutes or
reading the caption and the video is
just looping so it's racking up super
high view time and watch duration and so
it goes viral and it reaches more people
and then that person who went viral does
have success they do have followers and
then other people look at them and
they're like oh I want that success I
want that follower count so they're
jumping from Trend to Trend they're not
sticking with it there's no consistency
and it's just not working I made a post
kind of talking about this on threads a
few weeks ago and I was overwhelmed with
the response it to date is one of my
most highly engaged with threads most
viewed threads posts of all time and
about 95% of the respondents 95% of the
people who replied to that thread were
agreeing and echoing what I was saying
that they don't like seeing faceless
marketing they don't like this trend
they're over it when they see a video
that says read the caption they just
keep scrolling and they intentionally do
not engage and it seemed like the 5% of
people who were arguing for faceless
marketing were the people who were doing
faceless marketing I couldn't really
find an example of anyone who was not
doing faceless marketing but was making
an argument for it so one of my
predictions is that faceless marketing
is going to go away in large part or at
least it's going to be far less
effective in 2025 than it was in 2024 in
fact in April of 2024 Forbes put out an
article talking about the rise and the
viral popularity of faceless marketing
and in that article they said this
according to stackla 86% of consumers
value authenticity in advertising and
faceless content is often perceived as
more genuine because it emphasizes the
message rather than the messenger that
first part the statistic is true
obviously it's a stat and I agree with
it but I disagree with what forb said in
the second half of that statement where
they said that it's perceived as more
genuine I disagree I think that generic
b-roll videos of people who are not the
actual Creator posting the post is less
genuine because essentially you're
hiding your face behind someone else's
content behind a video of another person
and so in my opinion it is less genuine
I think that the messaging matters I
think that the captions matter I think
that the stories that you're telling can
be your own and all of these things
definitely Aid in authenticity but at
the end of the day if you are trying to
build a personal brand without sh
showing the person who is the brand it's
going to be very tough it's going to be
very tough to be authentic it's going to
be very tough to build trust it's going
to be very tough to build a brand that
people can recognize and can keep coming
back to when you're using videos and
creating posts that don't stand out that
look like the same generic b-roll videos
that everyone else is using my second
Trend prediction for 2025 is that AI
content will start to be heavily used by
content creators and it will be
indistinguishable from content that is
not AI generated we have seen that this
is already starting to take place here
at the end of 2024 in video AI which
this is not a paid sponsorship or
promotion for them but nid AI just
rolled out their new V3 their version 3
and in version 3 you can put in a simple
text prompt and it can create an entire
real or YouTube short or even YouTube
video for you with original voiceover
complete storytelling and their new V3
even has generative video in it I'm not
sure if you've seen the AI clips of Will
Smith but there was this hilarious AI
video that came out maybe a year and a
half ago now of Will Smith eating
spaghetti and it's like super weird it
was you know he's like the fork is
turning into the spaghetti and it's like
mixing with his mouth it's like very
distopian and doesn't look real but then
in 2024 this video comes out that it
doesn't look like AI at all and that was
just one small example and obviously the
computing power and the tools needed to
create that was probably a little
heftier in mid 2024 like the average
content creator couldn't have created
that indistinguishable of a video in mid
2024 but I believe that by mid 2025 it's
going to be indistinguishable already I
can create voiceover reels with a clone
of my own voice with AI video and b-roll
content that looks just like I made it
that looks just like my editor made it
that sounds just like my voice it's
pretty flipping crazy and it's starting
to take root here at the end of 2024 so
I believe in 2025 it's going to be
really really really tough to
distinguish between what is AI generated
and what is not and of course that's why
authenticity matters that's why being
yourself that's why putting your own
face on camera telling your own stories
using your own voice I believe that if
you're building a personal brand those
things really really matter and they're
going to matter now more than ever
before because of the rise of AI content
all right my third prediction for
Instagram in 2025 and I got to give
credit where credit is due my wife
helped me come up with this one this was
her idea
Financial transparency there seems to be
a growing Trend here at the end of 2024
where people are being very CED and very
honest about their finances about their
budgeting about their spending about
what their revenue is about what their
numbers look like and I think that it's
a really positive trend I think
unfortunately in 2024 we saw a lot of
people making false income claims a lot
of people taking screenshots literally
off of Google of fake bank accounts or
or fake stats showing how much money
they've made this month they're posting
it on their stories they're posting it
on their reels and they're claiming I
made this much money in this much time I
made $50,000 in a week I made $100,000
this month I made $17 million this year
and just these fake income claims and so
I think there's going to be a movement
and we've already started to see it take
place a little bit on Tik Tok and a
little bit on Instagram where content
creators especially business coaches or
people in the financial industry are
being very transparent and very honest
about their finances and about their
income and about all of these numbers
also of course the FTC has passed laws
and regulations trying to crack down on
this it's impossible that the FTC is
going to catch every single Instagram
post that has a false income claim but
just the fact that the FTC is
threatening to crack down on it and that
they have started to find influencers
and large accounts who are basically
trying to scam others with these false
income claims shows that this trend is
only going to continue to grow in 2025
and like I said I think it's a great
thing because we all need financial
transparency and being honest about
Revenue numbers and income Amounts is
very important for setting realistic
expectations and for selling in an
ethical way on social media all right
Trend number four is something that I
done an entire podcast video about
already and it is the rise of share
worthy content Shares are going to be
the secret sauce for growing on
Instagram in 2025 if you want more views
if you want to grow if if you want to
even go viral you are going to have to
get more shares in fact according to
Instagram CEO himself he has now said
this numerous times the best form of
Engagement is a share the number one
metric that the algorithm is looking for
is send per reach set another way how
many people are sharing your post out of
everyone who sees your post the amount
of shares is going to heavily impact the
performance of your post on social media
and that's going to be true for all
social medias but especially for
Instagram if you want more info on how
to create sharew worthy content in my
opinion there are five categories of
sharew worthy content and like I said I
did an entire podcast episode about that
so if you want to find that on the
YouTube channel or search it up in the
podcast it's called how to boost views
on Reals in less than 10 minutes and
basically that will walk you through
creating sharew worthy content and
luckily sharew worthy content is some of
the easiest content to create on all
social media and because Shares are the
best way to grow and because it's also
being talked about right I'm talking
about it right now Instagram CEO has
said it a few times more people are
going to be creating sharew worthy
content we're going to see the rise of
me influencers influencers who are
popular just for the memes that they
create with that being said though I
also think and this is kind of like a 4A
and 4B prediction 4 a is that shares
will be the best kind of Engagement and
we're going to see more sharew worthy
content but because of that prediction
4B is that it's going to be tougher to
get a share basic Supply and demand
tells us that as more people are
creating sharew worthy posts as the
supply increases for the amount of
sharable content on social media the
average number of shares that each of
our posts is getting is going to go down
at the end of the day people aren't
going to be able to match that level of
Supply they're not going to be able to
share 14 posts a day from 14 different
creators the amount of times we're
sharing per day might slightly increase
but I don't think it's going to increase
at the same rate that the amount of
sharew worthy posts is increasing so
basically there's going to be a lot more
sharew worthy content but not a lot more
shares to go around so on average I
think people are going to be seeing less
shares per Post in 2025 prediction
number five for 2025 is actually similar
to one that I mentioned in 2024 and it
is that small accounts will dominate
like I said earlier we've already seen
in 2024 that smaller accounts are
getting more views in fact here's the
specific statistic accounts with five 00
followers or less are getting 34% more
views per Post in 2024 than they were in
2023 compare that to accounts with more
than 10,000 followers they're only
getting 2% more views in 2024 than 2023
what that means is the announcement that
Instagram made earlier this year about
we're helping small accounts and we're
going to prioritize small accounts
growth and Views is actually true
they're actually doing what they said
they are prior prioritizing and showing
favoritism towards original creators and
towards smaller content creators I also
think there's something to be said about
the power of a hyperfocused niche
Community when all of your posts are
relevant to that small group you can
have a lot of success with that group on
my other podcast social media money
makers I recently interviewed a Creator
who made $30,000 and that's a real
income claim not a fake income claim
$30,000 in one launch so basically like
one week or one weekend with l L than a
th followers and that's because the 900
something followers that she had were
super engaged they were part of a small
hyper focused Niche community and so she
was able to really pour into each of
them love on them show them the respect
and the level of Engagement that they
deserve and because of that she was able
to build some trust and she was able to
show authenticity and convert them from
followers into customers so again
something that I think is going to
happen in 2025 is these smaller accounts
let's broadly say accounts with less
than 10,000 or even less than 50,000 but
specifically less than 10,000 followers
on Instagram are going to have a lot of
success not just with views not just
with growth but specifically with
growing a business with sales and with
customer generation in 20125 and that is
great news because prediction number six
that I have for 2025 is that there's
going to be a boom in online
entrepreneurship in coaches and in
Freelancers and I believe this is going
to be fueled by a few few things a few
things that we've already mentioned like
prediction number five but I also think
that this is going to be fueled by and
this doesn't sound fun to say and I know
some people are going to get mad at me
for this but the dying off of the
Network marketer or the multi-level
marketer industry now my mom did an
episode of this podcast a few weeks ago
called Beach Body in parentheses body
which is their rebranded name calls it
quit our mlms over where she goes more
in depth into her background her
insights and her predictions for the
multi-level Market network marketing
industry but let me just read you some
statistics and you can be the judge of
yourself first of all according to
numerous studies 98 to 99% of people in
multi-level marketing don't make any
money and unfortunately that reality
that fact that statistic is becoming a
lot more widely known and it's scaring a
lot of people away from joining network
marketing additionally many major
network marketing and multi-level
marketing companies have called it quits
theyve changed their program they've
changed their revenue structure or they
have been reporting lower earnings in
2024 and I think this signals the
broader shift away from network
marketing and multi-level marketing
towards things like owning your own
business affiliate marketing brand
Partnerships doing it for yourself
sponsorships building your own online
business and I think the Simplicity and
the ease of doing it for yourself is
increasing thanks to tools like stand
store and many chat it's becoming easier
and easier to grow a business online to
sell things to promote things and to
earn an income from Social media and so
I think the Reliance upon network
marketing SL multi-level marketing is
going down now I also don't want to
paint with a broad brush and say that
all multi-level marketing is going to
die and all the businesses are going to
go away and they're going to shut down
and they're all bad none of that is true
I think that there are people who do it
right and people who do it wrong I think
there are some companies that are very
ethical and moral and that are doing it
right and there are some that are doing
it a little bit wrong I think that
ultimately it's up to each individual
person to figure out what's best for
them and one of the reasons that I have
always been a fan of network marketing
is that it can be a great way for people
to learn the basics the foundations the
principles of growing a business online
building a brand building a social media
presence selling all of those things can
be learned and often times can be
learned easier or more efficiently when
you are a part of a network marketing
company however because of that because
that's been the truth for the last 15 to
50 years a lot of people now have that
Foundation they know how to sell things
they built a personal brand they
understand social media marketing and
now they want to do it for themselves
you couple that with the fact that a lot
of these companies are changing business
practices or they're going out of
business alt together and I think that
there's going to be a boom in people
doing it fors a boom in Freelancers a
boom in online entrepreneurship a boom
in online coaches in 2025 I don't mean
to be Bleak but let me just read you
this excerpt from a medium article they
say that Monae a major hair care company
has all but collapsed the company has
started to fire people in its top ranks
amidst major lawsuits while the company
has not declared bankruptcy people are
fleeing left and right they also go on
to say that Rodan and Fields a major
skincare company has ended its famous
multi-level marketing side and they've
switched to a commission only pay system
which is also what Beachbody has done
Saint or Saint I'm not sure how to say
it a makeup company has gone belly up
they are redoing their commissions so
that the MLM aspect of it will no longer
be in service Amway often considered to
be the king of mlms has posted less
profit in 2024 the 5% drop made earnings
below the $8 billion Mark for the first
time in a decade so again while I don't
think 100% of network marketing or
multi-level marketing companies are
going to go away I do think we're going
to see a massive shift away from them in
2025 my seventh prediction for Instagram
in 2025 is a Resurgence of carousels
over the last few years we have become
so real happy reals reals reals that's
all anyone wants to post and carousels
have become something that are highly
edited you need Photoshop to create
these like super crazy Graphics that
like seamlessly transitions from one
slide to the next but here towards the
end of 2024 two things have happened
that make me think that carousels are
going to make a big comeback in 2025 the
first one is a Content Trend happening
at the end of 2024 where people are are
creating very authentic in the moment
almost photo dump style carousels now
photo dump carousels are where you just
take a bunch of photos and you basically
you know dump them out onto your
Instagram in a carousel they're very
popular with Gen Z and they've been very
popular for a year or two but here at
the end of 2024 the more widespread
Trend which is taking place across all
generations is carousels where people
are taking a photo of themselves often
times a very candid photo like a
professional photo shoot photo but just
a very candid photo of themselves maybe
having a sip of coffee or working on the
computer and they're adding some really
real honest authentic text on top of it
I've recently done a few versions of
this myself and I've seen many other
creators doing their own version of this
trend as well and what this shows me is
that people are appreciating authentic
in the- moment raw imperfect carousels
in the same way that they have grown to
appreciate raw in the moment imperfect
reals and so I think that in 2025 we're
going to see more of this we're going to
see more people creating carousels that
aren't highly polished highly edited
with great graphic design and instead
are just kind of a collection of photos
from your recent life or from whatever
it is that you're talking about from the
story that you're telling and they're
going to add some simple text maybe even
native Instagram text on top of the
Carousel and then post it it's a great
way to tell stories it's been very
popular on Tik Tok for at least the last
year and I think it's going to come to
Instagram as well the other change that
has recently taken place that tells me
that carousels are going to make a
comeback in 2025 is that Instagram has
doubled the number of slides that you
can put in a carousel so since carousels
were born on Instagram you could only
put 10 slides but now Instagram is
allowing up to 20 and while I'm not
saying that you need to put 20 slides in
all of your carousels I got to say as
someone who posts a few carousels a week
sometimes it's nice to be able to put 12
photos or 14 sometimes you just need
those extra slides to add your call to
action or to space out your Carousel so
that there's not so much text on every
single photo and so I really appreciate
it and I know that this expansion to 20
slides or allowing us to put up to 20
slides in our carousels has allowed me
to get more creative and to post more
carousels in general so I think that's
going to continue in 2025 I think more
people are going to post more carousels
it's just so easy to create a carousel
uh We've really over complicated things
with this you know Trend toward graphic
design and professional fancy editing
carousels so I think we're going to
embrace the raw imperfect carousels and
I think that's going to allow more
people to post more carousels in 2025
all right my final my eighth and final
Instagram prediction for 2025 is that
live selling is going to become a big
deal on Instagram in 2025 and here's why
it's already a big deal on Tik Tok in
fact in February of 2024 which is the
most recent numbers that I could find 23
of all all gmv which stands for gross
merchandise value so like the total
value of all the things sold 2/3 of the
total value of all things sold on social
media was sold through Tik Tock shop and
the Tik Tok shop is heavily sold through
Tik Tok live Tik Tok has really figured
it out in that sense if you go live on
Tik Tok and you are a part of the Tik
Tok shop you can promote Tik Tock
products very much like we used to see
Back in the Day on QVC QVC for those of
you who don't know is a popular
broadcast channel that yes shelene has
been on a few times herself where they
sell things live basically 24/7 all
hours of the day you turn on QVC and
you're basically getting infomercials
selling you different products and it's
very very effective there's something in
it when you are selling live that just
makes people more willing to purchase
that's why webinars are so popular
that's why master classes are so popular
entrepreneurs aren't doing free master
classes just because they want to give
back they're doing it so they can get
your email and so they can sell you
something at the end of the free Master
Class A lot of people know that by now I
know that's not news but what I think is
going to happen on Instagram in 2025 is
that people are going to realize you can
sell during your Instagram live videos
one of the best ways to do this and this
is not a promotion in any way is to use
many chat many chat which a lot of y'all
are familiar with for DM automation is
the tool where someone can comment a
certain word on your post and then they
automatically receive the link in the
DMs I know we've done numerous podcast
about that in the past so just go ahead
and search that up in your podcast app
and you can find it but one super
underutilized tool that many chat offers
and that they have offered for years is
live DM automation so if someone's
watching you live and they comment the
keyword hot dog and you've set it up so
that when someone says the word hot dog
they automatically get a link to 10% off
your hot dogs well then you can sell so
much more effectively because on
Instagram live without many chat you
have to tell people go to some link like
leave the live and go click on some link
or go type in some link it's very hard
what happens if they get lost now they
have to like come back to your live and
I hope you're live at the time instead
it's so much easier to use many chat
I've done this numerous times where I
just tell people hey I'm going live on
Instagram for an hour I'm going to
answer your questions about how to grow
on Instagram and then during that live I
tell people hey if you want your profile
reviewed just comment the word review on
this live and I'll automatically send
you the link to purchase a profile
review then when they comment review
they get that link sent to their DM
inbox automatically when the live ends
it's ready and waiting for them or some
people yes do leave the live and go
click on that link but it's just such a
more intuitive and easy way to sell on
Instagram live I don't have any
information on this but I would not be
surprised if Instagram even improves
their live selling in 2025 to make it
more like Tik Tok where you can shop and
purchase things without even leaving the
live I would not be surprised if that
takes place but even if it doesn't using
many chat to sell on live is going to be
a game Cher on Instagram in 2025 and I
think more people are going to start to
figure that out and they're going to
start to use it in general y'all know me
I'm an optimist I think 2025 is going to
be a great year on Instagram one
prediction that isn't really in my 2025
predictions but it's going to be the
case it's definitely going to happen is
that views are going to get better in
2025 a lot of people saw huge drops in
views in 2024 especially towards the end
of 2024 and a lot of that had to do with
the US presidential election both sides
and numerous corporations were spending
Millions upon millions of dollars in
advertising and that was affecting the
feed so even if you weren't seeing
political ads every day it was affecting
people's feeds it was affecting the way
Instagram and Facebook operated and that
changed immediately the day after the
the election the cost per view on ads
significantly dropped which which tells
us of course they stop spending Millions
upon millions of dollars on Advertising
which also means the algorithms are
going to return to normal the views
should increase and I just think 2025 is
going to be a great year on Instagram so
many more people creating content the
barrier to entry keeps getting lower it
keeps getting easier and simpler to grow
a business and grow a brand and make
money and provide for yourself on
Instagram so I really think that 2025 is
going to be a great year on Instagram I
think that creators and business owners
alike are going to experience success
like they haven't seen in a while on
Instagram in 2025 of course the people
who stay up to date with the latest
trends and strategies are the ones who
are going to have the most success the
ones who are able to stay consistent and
able to persevere through the
uncomfortability they're going to
embrace the suck they're the ones who
can keep going despite the challenges
those are the ones who are going to have
the most success so thank you so much
for being here I want to say thank you
so much for subscribing and listening to
this podcast throughout 2024 I app
appreciate you like I said at the
beginning if you have a question uh if
you have a disagreement if you have your
own opinions that you want to share on
these Trend predictions let me know down
in the comments below but thank you for
being here and I'll see you next week
[Music]